Essential CLI Commands for Asset Bundles
Databricks Asset Bundles – Essential CLI Commands
Databricks Asset Bundles are designed to standardize how we define and deploy Databricks projects across environments such as dev, test, and prod. While the videos in this course mainly focused on using the UI, it’s also important to understand the basic CLI commands used with bundles. These may appear in the certification exam.

In the videos, we already covered the two most important commands:

databricks bundle deploy – to push your project to a Databricks workspace.

databricks bundle destroy – to remove all deployed resources from the workspace.

For completeness, here is the full list of essential commands you should know:

1. databricks bundle init
Initializes a new Databricks bundle project in your working directory.

databricks bundle init
Prompts you for a template (Python, SQL, MLflow, etc.).

Creates a starter databricks.yml file and project folder structure.

2. databricks bundle validate
Validates the configuration of your bundle before deployment.

databricks bundle validate
Ensures your databricks.yml file is correctly structured.

Catches missing or invalid fields early.

Always a good practice to run before deploying.

3. databricks bundle deploy
Deploys your bundle to the Databricks workspace.

databricks bundle deploy -t dev
-t specifies the target environment (e.g. dev, test, prod).

Uploads source code and provisions jobs, clusters, pipelines, etc.

Creates a hidden .bundle folder in the workspace with your files.

4. databricks bundle run
Runs a defined workflow (job) from your bundle.

databricks bundle run my_job
Executes a specific job defined in the bundle.

Useful for testing deployments.

5. databricks bundle destroy
Removes all deployed resources from the specified target environment.

databricks bundle destroy -t dev
Cleans up jobs, clusters, and other resources created by the bundle.

Helpful when resetting environments or avoiding conflicts in shared workspaces.